...
in a moment, but it's about a project called Sky
Limit.
I started in December, and you can try it live,
if you like, at skylimit.
dev, and there's my handle.
There's an article that appeared in New York Times just like
three days ago, "The Terrible Cost of Infinite Scroll
." It was in response to the meta and YouTube judgment,
and I'm a scientist, and I don't like the
infinite scroll, and I interact with people who are not very
popular by likes, but I don't see their posts,
okay?
So I have a subtype post that describes it.
The subtitle there is, "What if your social media
feed work like a newspaper instead of a slot machine, where
occasionally you get good posts, but you don't know when
you're going to get it?
A newspaper, I like the newspaper, I'm an old
-fashioned guy, I like sections, I read comics,
and can I reproduce that in Blue Sky?" And actually,
you can, so that's the point of the talk.
So in the post, I wrote that if more social apps
are built around infinite scrolling, Skylimit, as the
name suggests, is built around finite scrolling.
I wrote this on March 25th, and the newspaper article
came on 26th, so I felt very good about that
.
But finite scrolling can get you a long way.
This is what the app looked like.
It's basically a clone of Blue Sky, and the various
things that look similar.
But I'll show you the things that look different.
The first thing you'll notice is that it says how many
posts I received per day, and how many it shows.
So I received about 1,300, it shows 600,
and 19 edited.
We'll come to the edited in a moment.
So that's new.
The other thing that's new is that it shows a number
and a time.
So every post is numbered starting from one, at midnight.
So you know how much you're eating.
It's like a calorie counter.
My calorie count is 600.
I know how much I'm eating.
Okay?
So every day I know how many posts I'm reading,
how many I left, roughly, statistical.
On weekends, it's actually less.
On weekdays, it's more.
It's a probabilistic curation.
So I know exactly what I'm reading, and the other
thing you can see is -- now I'm going to introduce
myself.
So if you go to my profile on Sky Limit,
so I'm a climate scientist, and I have 600 followers
.
How do I limit the number of posts I see?
If I'm going to see 600 posts a day, how
do I limit that, okay?
So this is also from the app.
The app has a live graph, which shows for each follow
ee, there are 600 of them.
Only the active ones are shown.
That's why it doesn't go up to 600.
How many of their posts is a logarithmic scale,
and this updates every two hours in your app.
And I was very surprised when I saw this, because I
had no idea what I was seeing.
The yellow is how many people are posting, and the green
is how much the app shows.
And the red is a cap it posts.
I call it the Sky Limit number.
It's about 3.
It's 2.
7.
It basically takes the area here and caps it and makes that
600, okay?
So if you're a quiet poster, and I'm a
quiet poster, all your posts will be shown.
So I wrote the app for quiet posters.
But if you're a prolific poster, you'll only
pick this many.
And beyond that, it's probabilistic, right?
And it automatically adjusts every two hours.
Everything is done in the browser in IndexedDB.
There's no server.
This runs on GitHub pages.
So 100 million people could use it tomorrow and still run if
GitHub serves it or CloudFest serves it.
So it's completely scalable.
And so this number can vary depending on your situation.
Let's see who those folks are.
So this is the Sky Limit number.
The other thing that it shows you in the same page as
that, it has a sortable table.
You can sort it by each column.
How many posts my followers post, how many it allows,
what the fraction that's shown.
I initialized this in three days.
So 80 protocol posting 54 posts per day.
I'm seeing 6% out there because of the cap.
So you can go down and you can check every two hours
this gets updated in your app.
So you get a complete view of who's posting what.
And you can sort it by various columns, like it tracks
engagement.
You can see who's the most engaged with.
All of that.
And these are the amplification factors.
So the normal, it gives you a three limit, but
you can make it six or you can amplify it if you
wish.
And if you click on the number you saw, you can
click on it.
You can amplify the factors.
So you have complete control over how many posts are shown.
So that, back here, the other thing that you can
see here, the sky limit number.
I put it in my profile, and I'm hoping everybody
puts it in their profile.
And there's some really cool things that come out of this
.
Okay.
So one of the advantages of being a last talk here is
that you know what other people are talking about.
And one of the things journalists pointed out that opaque AI algorithms
, they don't know who they're going to reach.
I don't post very much.
Post something, I have no idea who will see it.
But if my followers are using sky limit, I can make
these assertions.
If your daily posting average is less than my 2.
7 number, I will always see your post.
That's guaranteed.
And there's a priority mechanism.
So it can divide posts into priority and regular.
And by default, anything with the hashtag is considered priority.
But the user can actually configure it.
But it's not a convention in place.
So right now, it just takes any hash post as priority
.
If your priority posting posts are less than average than my sky
limit number, it will always be shown.
And posts matching addition criteria are always shown.
I'll talk about additions in a moment.
But this gives guarantees.
If my followers use sky limit, I can tell exactly how
many people will see my post.
And they see a limited number.
And it will actually tell them if they haven't read my
post.
It counts the posts that haven't been read.
It says you haven't read this many posts.
And I'm okay with that number because it's a fixed
number per day.
If it's too much, I'll cut it down.
So the infinite linear feed is just a UI construct.
There's so much talk about custom feeds.
But you can do more than custom feeds.
You have to think outside the line of the feed, and
I'll talk about additions, which is two-dimensional.
So I love newspapers, as I said.
So what you can do here is another tab called Periodic
Editions.
You can configure the additions.
So you can have many additions a day.
You can decide who your columnists are and what their sections
are.
It's basically a markdown file.
You can see all their posts or posts which match their Subst
ack URL.
There are people I follow on Substack and they post about
it.
I want to see it.
I don't want to miss it.
It will automatically create that fixed times of the day.
And this is what an addition looks like.
So I like comics.
So I follow XKCD, and it will only appear
at noon.
It could have been posted yesterday, but I'll see it
And I don't need to see it immediately.
Okay.
It doesn't clutter up my post.
So you can collapse it so I have blue sky, and
you can see blue sky as you want it.
And the other thing it tells you here, I don't
think you can see it, it says how many posts are
unread.
So you know if you read it, you don't have
to go back to it.
So just parting thoughts.
Don't think of a linear feed.
Think of multiple options.
We had some talks earlier today at the Anisoda.
You can have newspapers in blue sky.
It's already working.
And it's a very simple format.
You can do that.
And don't let your social media diet became an opaque AI
construct.
I like AI.
I used AI to make this.
But I like to verify the answers.
So if you're using Addy to generate things, I
would want to know what it is.
I would want it to generate my digital layout, and look
at it, then use it.
So I think AI is helpful, but you want to check
, and you want it to be transparent.
But the nice thing about SkyLimit, it can
limit your views, and transparently rely on human followers
to do a curation for you.
I follow people because I want to see their posts.
And this ensures that if you don't post too much,
I will definitely see your posts.
And actually the one special hashtag which you'd recognize is called
#weekly.
Any post that has #weekly will always be shown,
but it will only be done once a week because it tracks
that.
That way I can guarantee that if you post something, everybody
who uses SkyLimit will see it.
So if you're someone who posts a weekly column, you
can guarantee that it will be seen.
I did manage good times, so I'm going to show
a few other features.
Oh, you can't see it here.
The colors are washed out.
But when a post is read, the paper will actually age
.
I put it on my computer.
So the paper looks old after 15 minutes.
It tracks views.
So if you're scrolling down and you want to have read
the support, you'll see it immediately.
And finally, why I'm writing this, because I don
't know if you've seen Wall-E.
This is what I'm afraid of, that you're sitting
and watching your infinite doom scroll created by AI, and I
don't want that feature.
I want to control my views.
So I'll leave you with those thoughts.
We have 15 seconds.